<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
    <title>Iliad</title>
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="about.css"/>
</head>
   <body>
       <div class="NavBar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a><a href="about.xhtml">About</a><a href="Methodology.xhtml">Methodology</a><a href="Characters.xhtml">Characters</a><a href="corpus.xhtml">Corpus</a><a href="Contact.xhtml">Contact</a></div>
       <h1>The Iliad Group</h1>
    <section id="who-we-are">
        <h2>Who We Are</h2>
        <div class="team-member">
            <h3>Kosi</h3>
            <p><strong>About:</strong>Kosi is a freshman Computer Science major at the University of Pittsburgh. He enjoys watching and playing soccer, as well as making music in his free time.</p>
            <p><strong>Role:</strong> He made the schema for the English and Greek translation. Kosi also made the base website. </p>                      
        </div>
        <div class="team-member">
            <h3>Isa</h3>
            <p><strong>About:</strong>Isa is a freshman at the University of Pittsburgh. She is majoring in Criminal Justice and Pre-Law. Some of her interests include speech and debate, and anything active! Recently, she has found a new interest in CSS due to this class.</p>
            <p><strong>Role:</strong>She did the english XML markup for man and husband. She also made the about page, character page, contact page, and the home page on the website.</p>           
        </div>
        <div class="team-member">
            <h3>Katie</h3>
            <p><strong>About:</strong>Katie is a junior at the University of Pittsburgh. She is majoring in Classical Civilizations as well as receiving a triple minor in anthropology, Mediterranean art and archeology, and ancient Greek. She is the Public Relations officer for Quo Vadis— the Nationality and Heritage Room tour guides— and is the president of the Classical Civilizations Club at Pitt.</p>
            <p><strong>Role:</strong>She did the Greek translation and XSLT. </p>            
        </div>
        <div class="team-member">
            <h3>Cheyenne</h3>
            <p><strong>About:</strong>Cheyenne is a sophomore History and Anthropology double major at the University of Pittsburgh. She plans on becoming an Archaeologist and doing research in the Mediterranean region. Cheyenne work at Prevention at Pitt as a SAFE Peer Educator spreading awareness about sexual assault and is also a teaching assistant for the First Year Programs. She is also a percussionist and is interested in percussion performance. </p>
            <p><strong>Role:</strong>She did the english XML markup for man and husband. She also helped with the XSLT. </p>
        </div>      
    </section>
    
    <section id="project">
        <h2>About our project</h2>
        <p> In the Greek version of the Iliad, the word <em>Andros</em> is used broadly wirth reference to both "man" and "husband." Over time, translations have come to 
            translate <em>Andros</em> with regard to Achilles and Patroklus, long theorized to be a romantic relationship, as "man" to preserve heteronormity. By contrast, the same word, <em>Andros</em>
            is translated as "husband" with regard to the character Menaleus in the context of his wife. The most recent translation of the Iliad, by Emily Wilson, returns to the original ambiguity of the Greek tradition,
            rejecting the order imposed by centuries of translators. We intend to use digital humanities techniques to demonstrate more readily the contrast between passages where we identified as ambiguous in the Greek and Wilson versions,
        but are distinctly heteronormative in other translations, namely the Butler translation in this case. We hope that this can be a learning tool for curious minds and scholars alike.</p>       
    </section>
    
    <section id="ta">
        <h2>Our TA</h2>
        <p><strong>Teaching Assistant:</strong> Cole</p>
        <p>Our TA helped us by keeping us on track and assigning different tasks to each memeber during every meeting.</p>
    </section>
    
    <!--<section id="process">
        <h2>How We Did It</h2>
        <ol>
            <li>Selected our topic and narrowed our idea down towards what our focus was.</li>
            <li>Researched and gathered the TEI Butler english version and the Greek version.</li>
            <li>Worked together on multiple different pieces that we learned about over the course of the semester.</li>
            <li>Finished our work and made any final touches to the website!</li>
        </ol>
    </section>-->
   </body> 
    </html>