<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Iliad</title>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="characters.css" />
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="NavBar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a><a href="about.xhtml">About</a><a href="Characters.xhtml">Characters</a><a href="corpi.xhtml">Corpus</a><a href="Contact.xhtml">Contact</a></div>
        <h1>Characters</h1>
        <section id="Menelaus/Meneleus">
            <h2>Menelaus/Meneleus</h2>
            <p>Meneleus is the husband of Helen and the King of Sparta. When referring to Meneleus, both man and husband are used.</p>
        </section>
        <section id="Achilles">
            <h2>Achilles</h2>
            <p>Achilles was the greatest warrior in the Trojan War. When looking at Achilles, only <em>ἀνήρ</em> and an ambiguous term are used. This can be shown to demonstrate the potential of a romantic relationship between him and Patroklos. In <em>The Song of Achilles</em> Madeline Miller writes,"I will never leave him. It will be this, always, for as long as he will let me.
                If I had had words to speak such a thing, I would have. But there were none that seemed big enough for it, to hold that swelling truth.
                As if he had heard me, he reached for my hand. I did not need to look; his fingers were etched into my memory, slender and petal-veined, strong and quick and never wrong.
                “Patroclus,” he said. He was always better with words than I.” This is Patroklos/Patroclus speaking on his love for Achilles. </p>
        </section>
        <section id="Patroklos/Patroclus">
            <h2>Patroklos/Patroclus</h2>
            <p>Patroklos/Patroclus was the Achilles' best friend and a Greek Hero. Similar to Achilles, only <em>ἀνήρ</em> and an ambiguous term are used when referring to Patroklos/Patroclus. There is a possibility of a romantic relationship between the two characters.</p>
        </section>
           </body>
</html>