<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <title>Iliad</title>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="corpus.css"/>
   </head>
   <body>
      <div class="NavBar"><a href="index.xhtml">Home</a><a href="about.xhtml">About</a><a href="Methodology.xhtml">Methodology</a><a href="Characters.xhtml">Characters</a><a href="corpus.xhtml">Corpus</a><a href="Contact.xhtml">Contact</a></div>
     
      <h1 class="reading-view-h1">Reading View</h1>

      <div class="container">

         <div class="view-banner-titles">
            <div>
               <h1>Greek Translation</h1>
            </div>
            <div>
               <h1>Butler Translation</h1>
            </div>
            <div>
               <h1>Wilson Translation</h1>
            </div>
         </div>

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>1. ὃς καὶ νῦν Ἀχιλῆα ἕο μέγʼ ἀμείνονα φῶτα ἠτίμησεν· ἑλὼν γὰρ ἔχει γέρας αὐτὸς ἀπούρας.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>1. Achilles is a much better man than he is</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>1. Just now he brought dishonor to Achilles who is a better man than him by far</p>
            </div>

         </div>

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>2. <strong>ἀνδρῶν</strong> αὖ μέγʼ ἄριστος ἔην Τελαμώνιος Αἴας ὄφρʼ Ἀχιλεὺς μήνιεν· ὃ γὰρ πολὺ φέρτατος ἦεν,</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>2. Thus spoke the goddess, and Helen's heart yearned after her former husband, her city, and her parents.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>2. With this, the goddess poured into her heart sweet longing for her city and her parents, and for her former husband.</p>
            </div>

         </div>
         
         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>3. ὣς εἰποῦσα θεὰ γλυκὺν ἵμερον ἔμβαλε θυμῷ <strong>ἀνδρός</strong> τε προτέρου καὶ ἄστεος ἠδὲ τοκήων·</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>3. But Priam bade her draw nigh. "My child," said he, "take your seat in front of me that you may see your former husband, your kinsmen and your friends</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>3. Dear child, come sit by me and watch your former husband and family and friends and relatives.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>4. δεῦρο πάροιθʼ ἐλθοῦσα φίλον τέκος ἵζευ ἐμεῖο, ὄφρα ἴδῃ πρότερόν τε πόσιν πηούς τε φίλους τε· οὔ τί μοι αἰτίη ἐσσί, θεοί νύ μοι αἴτιοί εἰσιν οἵ μοι ἐφώρμησαν πόλεμον πολύδακρυν Ἀχαιῶν· ὥς μοι καὶ τόνδʼ ἄνδρα πελώριον ἐξονομήνῃς ὅς τις ὅδʼ ἐστὶν Ἀχαιὸς <strong>ἀνὴρ</strong> ἠΰς τε μέγας τε. ἤτοι μὲν κεφαλῇ καὶ μείζονες ἄλλοι ἔασι, καλὸν δʼ οὕτω ἐγὼν οὔ πω ἴδον ὀφθαλμοῖσιν, οὐδʼ οὕτω γεραρόν· βασιλῆϊ γὰρ <strong>ἀνδρὶ</strong> ἔοικε</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>4. So you are come from the fight," said she; "would that you had fallen rather by the hand of that brave man who was my husband.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>4. So you came back from the fighting. I wish that you had died out there, defeated by that strong man who used to by my husband.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>5. ἤλυθες ἐκ πολέμου· ὡς ὤφελες αὐτόθʼ ὀλέσθαι <strong>ἀνδρὶ</strong> δαμεὶς κρατερῷ, ὃς ἐμὸς πρότερος πόσις ἦεν. ἦ μὲν δὴ πρίν γʼ εὔχεʼ ἀρηϊφίλου Μενελάου</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>5. And Achilles answered, "Noble son of Menoitios, manafter my own heart, I take it that I shall now have the Achaeans praying at my knees, for they are in great straits</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>5. Swift Achilles answered him, "Nobel Patroklos, son of great Menoetius, you are the person dearest to my heart.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>6. ὃν δὴ ἐγὼ κάρτιστον Ἀχαιῶν φημι γενέσθαι. οὐδʼ Ἀχιλῆά ποθʼ ὧδέ γʼ ἐδείδιμεν ὄρχαμον <strong>ἀνδρῶν</strong>, ὅν πέρ φασι θεᾶς ἐξέμμεναι· ἀλλʼ ὅδε λίην</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>6. I must go back and tell Achilles. You, sir, know what a terrible man he is, and how ready to blame even where no blame should lie.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>6. The man is dangerous and quick to blame even the blameless.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>7. αἶψα δʼ <strong>ἑταῖρον</strong> ἑὸν Πατροκλῆα προσέειπε φθεγξάμενος παρὰ νηός· ὃ δὲ κλισίηθεν ἀκούσας ἔκμολεν ἶσος Ἄρηϊ, κακοῦ δʼ ἄρα οἱ πέλεν ἀρχή. τὸν πρότερος προσέειπε Μενοιτίου ἄλκιμος υἱός· τίπτέ με κικλήσκεις Ἀχιλεῦ; τί δέ σε χρεὼ ἐμεῖο; τὸν δʼ ἀπαμειβόμενος προσέφη πόδας ὠκὺς Ἀχιλλεύς</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>7. Old Peleus bade his son Achilles fight ever among the foremost and outvie his peers, while Menoitios the son of Aktor spoke thus to you: ‘My son,’ said he, ‘Achilles is of nobler birth than you are, but you are older than he, though he is far the better man of the two.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>7. My son, Achilles comes from higher birth, and he is stronger -but you are the elder. You must advise him, counsel him, direct him. It will be better if he yields to you.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 


         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>8. τέκνον ἐμὸν γενεῇ μὲν ὑπέρτερός ἐστιν Ἀχιλλεύς, πρεσβύτερος δὲ σύ ἐσσι· βίῃ δʼ ὅ γε πολλὸν ἀμείνων. ἀλλʼ εὖ οἱ φάσθαι πυκινὸν ἔπος ἠδʼ ὑποθέσθαι καί οἱ σημαίνειν· ὃ δὲ πείσεται εἰς ἀγαθόν περ.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>8. Myrmidons, followers of Achilles son of Peleus, be men my friends, fight with might and with main, that we may win glory for the son of Peleus, who is far the foremost man at the ships of the Argives - he, and his close fighting followers.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>8. He is by far the best of all the Greeks, and his subordinates are best as well.</p>
            </div>


         </div>
         
         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>9. αὐτὸς μὲν γὰρ ἐγὼ μενέω νηῶν ἐν ἀγῶνι, ἀλλʼ <strong>ἕταρον</strong> πέμπω πολέσιν μετὰ Μυρμιδόνεσσι μάρνασθαι· τῷ κῦδος ἅμα πρόες εὐρύοπα Ζεῦ,</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>9. Now when Sarpedon saw his comrades, men who wore unbelted tunics, being overcome by Patroklos son of Menoitios, he rebuked the Lycians saying. "Shame on you, where are you fleeing to? Show your mettle; I will myself meet this man in fight and learn who it is that is so masterful; he has done us much hurt, and has stretched many a brave man upon the ground.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>9. Lycians, for shame! Where are you running off to? Stay sharp! I will myself go face this  man and find out who is dominating us</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>10. αἰδὼς ὦ Λύκιοι· πόσε φεύγετε; νῦν θοοὶ ἔστε. ἀντήσω γὰρ ἐγὼ τοῦδʼ <strong>ἀνέρος</strong>, ὄφρα δαείω ὅς τις ὅδε κρατέει καὶ δὴ κακὰ πολλὰ ἔοργε</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>10. When Patroklos was coming on like a for yet a fourth time, Apollo shouted to him with an awful voice and said, "Draw back, noble Patroklos, it is not your lot to sack the city of the Trojan chieftains, nor yet will it be that of Achilles who is a far betterman than you are.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>10. Even Achilles will not take this city, although he is superior to you.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>11. φραχθέντες σάκεσιν χαλκήρεσιν· ἀμφὶ δʼ ἄρά σφι λαμπρῇσιν κορύθεσσι Κρονίων ἠέρα πολλὴν χεῦʼ, ἐπεὶ οὐδὲ Μενοιτιάδην ἔχθαιρε πάρος γε, ὄφρα ζωὸς ἐὼν θεράπων ἦν Αἰακίδαο</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>11. For he whose squire has been now killed is the foremost man at the ships of the Achaeans - he and his close-fighting followers.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>11. This dead man  was the comrade of the best by far all the Greeks beside the ships, and their battalion is the best as well</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>12. ἄλγιον αἴ κʼ ἐθέλῃσι τῷ ἔσσεται· οὔ μιν ἔγωγε φεύξομαι ἐκ πολέμοιο δυσηχέος, ἀλλὰ μάλʼ ἄντην στήσομαι, ἤ κε φέρῃσι μέγα κράτος, ἦ κε φεροίμην. ξυνὸς Ἐνυάλιος, καί τε κτανέοντα κατέκτα.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>12. At first the Trojans drove the Achaeans back, and they withdrew from the dead man daunted.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>12. Patroklos had been dear to him before, in former times, when he was still alive, when he had been the comrade of Achilles.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>13. πυκνὰ μάλα στενάχων ὥς τε λὶς ἠϋγένειος, ᾧ ῥά θʼ ὑπὸ σκύμνους ἐλαφηβόλος ἁρπάσῃ <strong>ἀνὴρ</strong> ὕλης ἐκ πυκινῆς· ὃ δέ τʼ ἄχνυται ὕστερος ἐλθών, πολλὰ δέ τʼ ἄγκεʼ ἐπῆλθε μετʼ <strong>ἀνέρος</strong> ἴχνιʼ ἐρευνῶν εἴ ποθεν ἐξεύροι· μάλα γὰρ δριμὺς χόλος αἱρεῖ·</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>13. So long as this man has anger against Agamemnon, the Achaeans were easier to deal with, and I would have gladly camped by the ships in the hope of taking them; but now I go in great fear of the fleet son of Peleus; he is so daring that he will never bide here on the plain whereon the Trojans and Achaeans fight with equal valor, but he will try to storm our city and carry off our women</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>13. and we will see what kind of man he is.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p>14. Πάτροκλος· τοῦ δʼ οὐκ ἐπιλήσομαι, ὄφρʼ ἂν ἔγωγε ζωοῖσιν μετέω καί μοι φίλα γούνατʼ ὀρώρῃ· εἰ δὲ θανόντων περ καταλήθοντʼ εἰν Ἀΐδαο αὐτὰρ ἐγὼ καὶ κεῖθι φίλου μεμνήσομʼ <strong>ἑταίρου</strong>.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>14. There was a bard also to sing to them and play his lyre, while two tumblers went about performing in the midst of them when the man struck up with his tune.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>14. Achilles had no sweetness in his heart, no softness in his mind. He was riled up with frenzied eagerness to fight and kill.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 

         <div class="view-banner">
            <div>
               <p></p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>15. Though men forget their dead when once they are within the house of Hades, yet not even there will I forget the comrade whom I have lost.</p>
            </div>
            <div>
               <p>15. I will not forget Patroklos, never, while my body moves, while I am still among those still alive, and even if the dead forget each other in Hades, even there I will remeber my friend, the man I love.</p>
            </div>


         </div> 
      </div>

        


   </body>
</html>